Day 1:Introduction to data structures	
1. Array, String, Linked lists. 
2. Stack, Queue, Heap: Using Arrays and lists. 
3. Maps/Dictionary/Hash table. 
4. Trees, Binary Tree, Binary search tree. 
5. Graph: Different representation of graph, BFS, DFS
Hash Tables	
1. Notion of Hashing and Collision (with a simple vector-based hash table) 
2. Hash Functions - properties, simple has function	
3. Methods for Collision Handling - separate chaining, notion of load factor, rehashing, open addressing



Day 2:data structures: Searching and Sorting and tree

1. Counting sort, insertion sort, bubble sort. 
2. Heap sort 
3. Quick sort merge sort. 
4. Search element: unordered array, ordered array, Heap.	

Trees	
1. Different representation of trees. 
2. Tree basic operations: Create tree, insert node, delete node etc. 
3. Different traversal of trees: in-order, pre-order, post-order, level-order. 
4. Introduction to binary search tree a. Create, insert new node in binary search tree b. Search in BST. 
5. Example of balanced binary tree: AVL, RB etc

Graphs	
1. Different representation of graph
2. BFS, DFS, Topological sort.
3. Importance and Applications of graph: Single source shortest path, All pair shortest path

Day 3: Java Object orientation

Introduction to Java Bytecode Class Files 
Compilation Process 
Data types, and Operations if conditions Loops – for while and do while
Data Handling and Functions	
Arrays - Single Dimensional and Multidimensional arrays 
Functions Function with Arguments Function Overloading 
The concept of Static Polymorphism String Handling - 
String StringBuffer Classes
OOPS in Java: Concept of Object Orientation
Attributes, and Methods
Classes and Objects
Methods and Constructors – Default Constructors and Constructors with Arguments
Inheritance
Abstract
Final
Static

Day 4:
Packages and Interfaces
Access Specifiers: Public, Private, Protected and Package
Exception Handling: Try, Catch, Finally, Throw and Throws
Multi-Threading: Runnable Interface, Extending a Thread Class, Synchronization in Threads
Wrapper Classes and Inner Classes: Integer, Character, Boolean, Float etc
Java.lang, Java.io, Java.util
Collections: ArrayList, Vector, HashSet, TreeSet, HashMap, HashTable



Day 5:

Introduction to XML
Writing XML files
DOM Parser – Writing into an XML file and Parsing an XML file
SAX Parser, XSL


Introduction to SQL: Connect, Insert, Update, Delete, Select
Introduction to JDBC and Architecture of JDBC
Types of Drivers: Type 1/2/3/4 drivers
Insert/Update/Delete/Select Operations using JDBC
Batch Processing Transaction
Management: Commit and Rollback


Day 6:


Introduction to Web Technologies
Type of Servlets: Generic and Http Servlet
Request Dispatchers: Forward and Include
4 types of Session Tracking and Filters

Introduction to JSP
Architecture of JSP
tags (Scripts, declarative, expression)
Implicit objects
JSP Directives
JSP and JDBC


Day 7:
Introduction to Hibernate
Architecture of Hibernate
Database Operations: Insert/Update/Delete/Select
Inheritance
Collections
HQL and Restrictions
Caching in Hibernate


Day 8:
Introduction to Spring Framework
Architecture
Display a Sample Message
IoC Containers
Bean Definition
Bean Scopes
Bean Post Processors
Dependency Injection Auto-Wiring

Aspect Oriented Programming (AOP)
Integrating Spring framework with Hibernate
Transaction Management
Ajax Framework and Design Patterns: DAO, DTO, MVC
Intercepting filters
Front Controller
Business Delegate


day 9:
Introduction to SOA
SOA Architecture
Business layer of SOA
Advantages of SOA

What is Contract
Address, and Binding in SOA
Composition of Service
Relation between SOA and Web Services

Introduction to Web Services
WSDL file
WSDL and UDDI
SOAP,
 RESTfulWeb Service
JAX-WS Implementation


Day 10,11,12 project work


